DEVELOPMENT.md updates (version 4) (#6837)
apollographql/apollo-server: DEVELOPMENT.md

# Development

## Workflow

> When in doubt, reference the `scripts` in `package.json`.

To start development, simply run `npm install` (`npm i` for short). This will install and build the project.

To run Typescript in watch mode, run `npm run watch`.

If you have [Volta](https://docs.volta.sh/guide/getting-started) installed, your Node and NPM versions will be configured automatically for you.

## Testing

To run tests, run `npm test` (or `npm t` for short).

Arguments can be passed to the test command using the `--` like so: `npm t -- --watch` (this runs Jest in watch mode).
Similarly, you can run specific test files by name like so: `npm t -- ApolloServer.test.ts`.

> Smoke tests run separately from Jest tests. They can be run with `npm run test:smoke`.

Reviewer: Maybe explain that smoke tests are specifically about ensuring that the built tarballs work properly. (You do mention it later under build system I guess)

## Linting, Formatting, Spelling

ESLint can be run via `npm run lint`.
Prettier can be run via `npm run prettier-fix`.

> Spell checking can be run via `npm run spell-check`. Words can be added to the dictionary: [`cspell-dict.txt`](./cspell-dict.txt) or ignore with the directive: `// cspell:ignore`.

Reviewer: "ignored"

Probably worth linking to the vscode extension.

> Code formatting and spelling are enforced in CI, status checks will fail if these commands fail.

Reviewer: Comma splice

> ## Publishing

Reviewer: Empty section? Worth making a quick description of `changeset`?

## Build System

Apollo Server is "dual-published", shipping with both ESM and CJS, and leverages deep imports. Combined with TypeScript, this introduces a fair amount of complexity into the build infrastructure of this repository. A few quirks to keep in mind while working in this project:

* Each dual-published package has 2 tsconfigs: one for ESM and one for CJS. These must also be referenced at the top-level in the respective esm/cjs-specific tsconfig files.

> * Deep imports in the `@apollo/server` package must be listed within the `package.json` "exports" property. It's important to note that each "exports" entry must be specifically in the order: "types", "import", "require". [Typescript docs for reference](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/esm-node.html#packagejson-exports-imports-and-self-referencing)

Reviewer: probably say that this is used by Node (right?) and tsc with moduleResolution whatever it is

> * Additional deep imports must be represented in `server/<new-import-name>` and must contain a `package.json` file. See [`server/express4/package.json`](server/express4/package.json) for an example. This is separate from the actual source code for this new import, which should exist in `server/src/<new-import-name>`.

Reviewer: and that this is used by tsc with the older moduleResolution

Smoke tests run separately from Jest tests. They can be run with `npm run test:smoke`. Smoke tests exist to ensure the built tarballs work properly.

## Linting, Formatting, Spelling

ESLint can be run via `npm run lint`.
Prettier can be run via `npm run prettier-fix`.
Spell checking can be run via `npm run spell-check`. Words can be added to the dictionary: [`cspell-dict.txt`](./cspell-dict.txt) or ignored with the directive: `// cspell:ignore`.

All 3 of these tools have respective VSCode extensions which can be found here:
[ESLint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint)
[Prettier](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp.prettier-vscode)
[CSpell](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=streetsidesoftware.code-spell-checker)

Code formatting and spelling are enforced in CI; status checks will fail if these commands fail.

## Publishing

This repository is published using [https://github.com/changesets/changesets](changesets). The CHANGELOG, GitHub releases, and npm publishes are all managed by changesets via [the GitHub workflow](./.github/workflows/release-pr.yml).

> A "changeset" (created by running `npx changeset`) is committed to source control for each PR in order to inform the tool what type of changes were made (patch, minor, major) with an accompanying description. A changesets is _required_ in order to pass status checks. If your PR has no effective changes to any packages, you can run `npx changeset --empty` to create an empty changeset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A "changeset" (created by running `npx changeset`) is committed to source control for each PR in order to inform the tool what type of changes were made (patch, minor, major) with an accompanying description. A changeset is _required_ for any PR touching files under `packages` in order to pass status checks. If your PR has no effective changes to any packages, you can run `npx changeset --empty` to create an empty changeset.
```

When at least one changeset exists, the workflow will open and update a release PR which consumes the changesets, updates package versions, and updates the CHANGELOG. When this PR is merged, the changes will be committed, the packages will be published, and a GitHub release will be created.

## Build System

Apollo Server is "dual-published", shipping with both ESM and CJS, and leverages deep imports. Combined with TypeScript, this introduces a fair amount of complexity into the build infrastructure of this repository. A few quirks to keep in mind while working in this project:

* Each dual-published package has 2 tsconfigs: one for ESM and one for CJS. These must also be referenced at the top-level in the respective esm/cjs-specific tsconfig files.

> * Deep imports in the `@apollo/server` package must be listed within the `package.json` ["exports"](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#exports) property. It's important to note that each "exports" entry must be specifically in the order: "types", "import", "require". Both [Node](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#exports) and [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/esm-node.html#packagejson-exports-imports-and-self-referencing)(via [`moduleResolution`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#moduleResolution)) make use of these entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Deep imports in the `@apollo/server` package must be listed within the `package.json` ["exports"](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#exports) property. It's important to note that each "exports" entry must be specifically in the order: "types", "import", "require". Both [Node](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#exports) and [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/esm-node.html#packagejson-exports-imports-and-self-referencing)(via [`moduleResolution: "node16"`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#moduleResolution)) make use of these entries.
```

Reviewer: (I think it's node16. The docs on the tsconfig page still says node12... I think they're the same?)
